### #25w3Xa planned changes

# 02 and spelunking rework / additions.

## more recipes will actually unlock properly
some recipes for items, and also items core to progression do not have a recipe book entry, this will be fixed within the new few updates

## new biomes.
each Layer will now have new cave biomes,
And the nether will have new biomes as well.

## List of new biomes
- Nether Shores
- Verite Dunes
- Dulmud Grotto (Respir)
- Shatterfrost Caves
- End Spikes
- Sulfuric Vents (chokepoint)
- Constell caverns
- True Depths
- Frost Accloy Caves (chokepoint)
- Hotspring Cave (Respir)
- Ashen cave (chokepoint)
- Giant Ruby Caves
- Giant Diamond Caves
- Magmatic Crystalbed caves (AKA Giant Magmite Caves)

## a note about giant crystal caves.
Giant diamond caves will contain giant crystals made of a new block, Crystal Diamond Block. Crystal Diamond Block will be purely decorational to avoid destroying the rarity of diamonds as a whole. the same can be said about the Giant Ruby Caves, which will contain Crystal Ruby Block for the same reasons.

## new geodes
Geodes will now come in multiple Crystal Types, they are as follows:

- Crystal Diamond (exclusively in Rimestone Layer)
- Amethyst (everywhere)
- Crystal Ruby (exclusively in Cragstone Layer)
- Crystal Emerald (very rare, only below mountains)
- Crystal Magmite (exclusively in Infernite layer)
- Crystal Constellite (exclusively in Starstone layer)

All types have a chance at spawning, though Amethyst will be the most common.

## New mobs
each new biome will have new mobs.
	
- **frostmites**<br>
	frostmites are small little bugs that spawn in groups. Frostmites attack via jumping at the player, dealing a small amount of damage as well as inflicting slowness. Another thing to note is when a frostmite dies, it will explode into an icy mist, dealing damage and slowness.

- **Dullura**<br>
	Dulluras are large amphibian creatures that are related to frogs. These larger guys will pop out of the Dulmud, and attempt to bite the player, peircing and ignoring half of your armor.
	the Dullow will also swallow fish, frogs, axolotls, and even items. Despite them posing a huge danger, you will be safe outside of the Grotto's water. When killed, the Dullow will drop all the items it had swallowed.

- **Whisps**<br>
	Whisps are ghosts that populate the Soul Sand Valleys. While seemingly harmless, the will teleport behind you and shoot soul fire balls, taking away oxygen and setting you on fire.

- **Dulfins**<br>
	Dulfins are are small, blind fish that spawn in Dulmud Grottos, and are the main food source for the Dullura that populate the waters. these fish are edible (you need to cook them lest you want blindness) and will allow you to regain some oxygen. the fish also have a unique behavior of jumping out of the water.

- **Chilled**<br>
	Literally just a Husk but blue and icy and gives slowness instead of hunger. they will also take some oxygen from you when you get hit.

- **Frost Weaver**<br>
	Frost Weavers are Frost spiders, and will wait patiently in powder snow for a player to come nearby. As a player comes nearby, they will jump out of the powder snow to attack. The Frost Weavers's attack inflicts slowness and frostbite I

- **Dune Weaver**<br>
	Dune Weavers are Spiders for sandy, arid biomes. dune weavers will wait patiently in the sand, only attack when the player is within 4 blocks away from it. the Dune Weaver inflict blindness.


## Chokepoint biomes
chokepoint biomes are biomes that will have a increasing multiplier on oxygen loss (1.5x). For example, an ashy biome will be considered a chokepoint biome.

## Respir biomes
certain biomes will have a decreasing multiplier on oxygen loss (0.75x). An example of a biome with this modifier would be the Lush Cave.

## air regeneration blocks
new blocks will be added in caves that will create areas where you will slowly regain oxygen, or decrease oxygen loss further.

## Better Layer sizes.
Each layer will now be sized based on how close they are to the surface, with Dolomite being 64 blocks, Cragstone being 80, Igniside and Rimestone being 128 blocks, and StarStone being 160.
(Deepslate may be decreased to ~40 blocks, but this is undetermined ATM.)

## sleeping in caves.
you will no longer be able to sleep inside of caves below y=0 UNLESS you are in a Respir biome

## Layer oxygen loss rework
Layers will now be more balanced when it comes to oxygen loss.

## new potion effects
new potions effects will be added,
and the potion of Oxygen Efficacy will get a new name and be remade.
	
- potion of Hypoxia (3 levels, harmful)
	increased Oxygen loss multiplier (0.1x up to 0.6x extra loss)
	lasts for 100 ticks (5 seconds) at min level and up to 400 ticks (20 seconds) at max level.
	
- potion of Rebreathing (3 levels, beneficial)
	decreased Oxygen loss multiplier (0.05x up to 0.5x less loss)
	lasts for 1200 ticks (1 minute) at min level and up to 3600 ticks (3 minutes) at max level

- Frostbite (effect, 3 levels, harmful)
	deals 3 damage every 30 ticks at level 1
	deals 3 damage every 25 ticks at level 2
	deals 3 damage every 20 ticks at level 3
	lasts for 240 ticks (12 seconds)

## New spiders
New spider types will be added. the only vanilla biomes that will be affected by this are deserts and mesas.

## (UNCONFIRMED) Deep mineshaft rework
Deep mineshafts will be reworked to be hardcoded, so that the structure is more flexible with cave generation.

## new structures
various new structures will be added. Some biomes with new structures will be as follows:
- Mesa
- Desert
- Starstone Layer
- Verite Dunes
- Nether Shores

## Canary in a coal mine
Parrots will now be poisoned if the oxygen loss multipler is >2x. this will also grant an achievement, 'Canary In A Coal Mine'

## Oxygen item rework
More oxygen gaining items will be added, and the Base Item will be remade to be more flexible for use with other items. an item for storing extra oxygen will also be added.

## (UNCONFIRMED) Oxygen bubbles
Certain enemies will now drop oxygen bubbles, which are sort of like experience orbs but for regaining oxygen instead.

## Misc changes
- The new nether forest will be removed in favor of more unique nether biomes and strucures 
(like verite dunes, and a Nether lab structure for teaching the player how to make the wither.)
- The Runic Obisidan will now spawn in Ruined portals (if i can figure out how.)
- Another Cragstone rework in order to make it's mechanics more flexible for use in more blocks
- Stronghold reworks may happen. Until then, Eye of ender, and the stronghold will remain the same.
- Changes in oxygen loss will now be controlled by a multipler. At some point, this will be an attribute for easy access.
- Igniside may be renamed so i can spell it easier.
- various textures will be updated
- Copper rails will be nerfed, and will oxidize, making the minecart move slower on it.
- vanilla rails will return to normal, and Copper rails will be added separately.
- 0.0.5 will no longer be getting updates. mod is offically in version 0.0.6
- Hazy maze cave will no longer play when reaching y=-55
- Hazy Maze Cave audio removed.
- The Nether is canonically now colder than the igniside layer. do with this knowledge what you will.
- Igniside will lose it's residue feature of burning the player on and off.

## Bug Fixes / Planned bug fixes
- wall torches will actually count towards oxygen loss
- console will no longer spam "THE NETHER" and "NOT THE NETHERe. yeah."

# questions that i made up.

## when mod release?
- when it's ready.

## could you please port the mod to a different version of the game?
- no.

## the nether portal doesn't light.
- you need runic obsidian to make the portal. the proper way to make the portal is Runic obsidian in the corners in the middle of the sides. if you don't understand this, just make the whole portal out of runic obsidian.

## why did i just randomly lose all my oxygen?
- probably lava or torch spam.
	



